Gone with the Wind - Wikipedia, the free encyclopediaHideWikipedia is getting a 
new lookHelp us find bugs and complete user interface translations 
      Notice something different? We've made a few improvements to Wikipedia. 
      Learn more. [Hide] 
      [Help us with translations!] 
Gone with the Wind
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopediaJump to: navigation, search 
This article is about the novel. For the film, see Gone with the Wind (film). 
For other uses, see Gone with the Wind (disambiguation).
      Gone With the Wind  

      1936 original cover of Gone with the Wind
      AuthorMargaret Mitchell
      CountryUnited States
      LanguageEnglish
      Genre(s)Historical fiction, Romance, Drama, Novel
      PublisherMacmillan Publishers
      Publication dateMay 1936
      Media typePrint (hardcover and paperback)
      Pages1037 (first edition)
      1024 (Warner Books paperback)
      ISBNISBN 0-446-36538-6 (Warner)
      OCLC Number28491920
      Followed byScarlett

Gone with the Wind, first published in May 1936, is a romantic novel written by 
Margaret Mitchell. The story is set in Clayton County, Georgia and Atlanta, 
Georgia during the American Civil War and Reconstruction[1] and depicts the 
experiences of Scarlett O'Hara, the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do plantation 
owner. The novel is the source of the extremely popular 1939 film of the same 
name.
      Contents [hide]
        1 Title
        2 Plot 
          2.1 Overview
          2.2 Part one
          2.3 Parts two and three
          2.4 Part four
          2.5 Part five
        3 Characters 
          3.1 Butler family
          3.2 Wilkes family
          3.3 O'Hara family
          3.4 Other characters
        4 Setting
        5 Politics
        6 Inspirations
        7 Reception
        8 Symbolism
        9 Sequels
        10 Adaptations
        11 Awards
        12 See also
        13 References
        14 External links

[edit] Title
The title is taken from the first line of the third stanza of the poem Non Sum 
Qualis eram Bonae Sub Regno Cynarae[2] by Ernest Dowson: "I have forgot much, 
Cynara! gone with the wind". The novel's protagonist, Scarlett O'Hara, also uses 
the title phrase in a line in the book: when her home area is overtaken by the 
Yankees, she wonders to herself if her home, a plantation called Tara, is still 
standing, or if it was "also gone with the wind which had swept through 
Georgia". More generally, the title has been interpreted as referring to the 
entire way of life of the antebellum South as having "Gone with the Wind". The 
prologue of the movie refers to the old way of life in the South as "gone with 
the wind…."
The title for the novel was a problem for Mitchell. She initially titled the 
book "Pansy", the original name for the character of Scarlett O'Hara. Although 
never seriously considered, the title "Pansy" was dropped once MacMillan 
persuaded Mitchell to rename the main character. Other proposed titles included 
"Tote the Weary Load" and "Tomorrow is Another Day", the latter taken from the 
last line in the book; however, the publisher noted that there were several 
books close to the same title at the time, so Mitchell was asked to find another 
title, and "Gone with the Wind" was chosen.
[edit] Plot
      This section's plot summary may be too long or overly detailed. Please 
      help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more 
      concise. (April 2009)

[edit] Overview
Scarlett O'Hara is the daughter of an Irish immigrant who has risen from humble 
origins to become materially and socially successful in the deep south of 1861. 
He owns a plantation named Tara in Georgia. Scarlett is infatuated with Ashley 
Wilkes, who, although attracted to her(at least she thinks so), marries his 
cousin, Melanie Hamilton. Wilkes is genuinely ambiguous about his feelings 
toward Scarlett. He knows his feelings run deep, and are both emotional and 
sexual in nature; but he never resolves whether to act upon his feelings, or to 
renounce them and definitively reject Scarlett’s flirtations, in favor of his 
wife and his social position. And though he never sins in the flesh, the novel 
clearly implies that he does so in his heart, leading Scarlett along; limited 
only by his weakness in making a decision as to what ultimately, he should do.
At the party announcing Ashley's engagement to Melanie, Scarlett meets Rhett 
Butler, who has a reputation as a rogue. As the Civil War begins, Scarlett 
accepts( in fact entices Charles into it, partly to be near Ashley and partly to 
take revenge from his sisters who were gossiping about her loose manners) a 
proposal of marriage from Melanie's brother, Charles Hamilton, who soon dies of 
disease in training. Scarlett's main concern regarding his death is not grief 
but that she is required to wear black which she hates, and above all cannot 
attend parties. After the war, Scarlett inherits Tara and manages to keep the 
place going. When Scarlett cannot get money from Rhett to pay the taxes on Tara, 
she marries her sister's fiancé, Frank Kennedy, takes control of his business, 
and increases its profitability with business practices that make many 
Atlantians resent her. Frank is killed when he and other Ku Klux Klan members 
raid a shanty town where Scarlet was assaulted while driving alone. Remorseful 
after Frank's death, Scarlett marries Rhett, who is aware of her passion for 
Ashley(witnessed at Ashley and Melanie's engagement) but hopes that one day she 
will come to love him instead. Scarlett eventually comes to realize that she 
does love Rhett, but only once the couple has been through so much that Rhett 
has fallen out of love with her.
[edit] Part one
Scarlett O'Hara is the belle of the County. Her flirtatiousness and charm won 
the hearts of many men in Clayton County, Georgia. At sixteen years old, 
however, she begins the trials that will completely overtake her life for the 
next twelve years. She does this by having an impromptu marriage with the 
bashful Charles Hamilton to save face and make her real love—Ashley 
Wilkes—jealous. However, soon after their wedding, Charles and all the other men 
in Georgia who are able to bear arms, go to war against the Yankees at the start 
of the Civil War. After six weeks of being in camp, Charles dies of measles. 
With Charles's death, Scarlett's main concern is that, in order to conform to 
society, she must dress in black mourning clothes and attend no parties.
[edit] Parts two and three
Scarlett moves to Atlanta to stay with her sister-in-law and Ashley’s wife, 
Melanie Wilkes and Melanie's Aunt Pittypat. Melanie grows to love Scarlett like 
a sister; however, Scarlett is very self-centered and resents Melanie. Scarlett 
meets Rhett Butler again while in Atlanta; he is attentive to her and she uses 
him (and his money) when it is convenient. Rhett has a bad reputation and is 
"not received" in polite society. Ashley is able to come home for Christmas from 
the war and stay with the ladies. At the end of his stay, Scarlett promises him 
that she will keep Melanie safe. With the help of Rhett and her personal slave, 
Prissy, Scarlett delivers Melanie's child Beau in the middle of a battle and 
leads Melanie, the baby and Prissy to safety back at Tara. The Civil War is 
ending and the northern army is marching through Georgia laying waste to the 
country. Upon her arrival, Scarlett hears the news of the death of her beloved 
mother, Ellen, of typhoid. Scarlett stays at Tara Plantation and tries to keep 
it solvent and care for its inhabitants.
[edit] Part four
Scarlett hears that Tara is about to be charged an enormous amount of tax by the 
new corrupt local government which she cannot pay. She decides to go to Atlanta 
and charm Rhett into paying the bill. After offering herself to Rhett who is in 
jail, as his mistress and being refused,since he can not disclose his fortunes 
for fear of being dispossessed. However, Scarlett marries Frank Kennedy, who has 
enough money to pay the tax on Tara. Frank is the fiancé of Scarlett's sister 
Suellen so she deceives him into thinking that Suellen is engaged to someone 
else in Clayton County.
With money borrowed from and then repaid to Rhett, Scarlett buys two timber 
mills and proceeds to make them very profitable. Her actions are considered very 
inappropriate for a woman by Atlanta society. As she travels home from one of 
her mills, one night, she is attacked by blacks near a shanty. Frank, Ashley, 
and many other men in the newly formed Ku Klux Klan avenge her attack. In the 
fight, Frank is killed.
A few months later Scarlett marries Rhett, who has become very rich by dubious 
means during the War.
[edit] Part five
Scarlett and Rhett start to enjoy their new life together. They have a child 
named Eugenia Victoria "Bonnie Blue" Butler, who becomes Rhett’s pride and joy. 
They live happily until Scarlett’s old infatuation with Ashley takes over. When 
Bonnie is killed in a riding accident Scarlett in the first flush of grief tells 
Rhett that she blames him. Rhett is heartbroken over the death of his beloved 
daughter. He drinks heavily and finally decides, after the death of Melanie 
Wilkes, to leave Scarlett forever. However, Scarlett realizes that she loves 
Rhett and never truly loved Ashley, but merely an idea of him. She confesses 
this to Rhett, but he is adamant. The book ends on an ambiguous note, as she 
decided to return to the familiarity of her beloved Tara, where she will find a 
way to win Rhett back: "Tomorrow is another day!".
[edit] Characters
[edit] Butler family
  Rhett Butler – Scarlett's love interest and third husband, often publicly 
  shunned for scandalous behavior, sometimes accepted for his charm. He is 
  financially a very shrewd man and initially appears to love Scarlett dearly.
  Eugenia Victoria "Bonnie Blue" Butler – Scarlett and Rhett's pretty, beloved 
  daughter,
miscarried baby after Scarlett's fall, and later Katie Colum "Cat" O'Hara in 
Scarlett.
[edit] Wilkes family
  Ashley Wilkes – The gallant Ashley married his unglamourous cousin, Melanie, 
  because she represented all that he loved and wanted in life, that is, the 
  quiet and happy life of a Southern gentleman of the "Twelve Oaks" plantation. 
  Ashley Wilkes marries Melanie Hamilton as an arranged marriage between the 
  Wilkes-Hamilton families; in which the marriage of cousins (which Ashley and 
  Melanie are) is the practice; when necessary to preserve the blood line and 
  social position of the family. As such, Wilkes is not, in the strictest sense, 
  brought to marriage by love, money, or sexual infatuation; but by a sense of 
  duty to preserve the socio-economic status quo of a world which he personally 
  enjoys and agrees with; and believes this marriage will support and sustain.
Wilkes becomes a soldier for the Confederate cause though he personally would 
have freed the slaves his father owned had the war not erupted, or at least that 
is what he claimed. Although many of his friends and relations were killed in 
the Civil War, Ashley survived to see its brutal aftermath. He remains the 
object of Scarlett's daydream of infatuated devotion, even throughout her three 
marriages. She is simply obsessed with unobtainable Ashley. Believing that she 
was in love with him, Scarlett imagined Ashley to be the "perfect man", leaving 
her unable to love another.
  Melanie Hamilton Wilkes – Ashley's wife and cousin, her character is that of 
  the genuinely humble, serene and gracious Southern woman. As the story 
  unfolds, Melanie becomes progressively physically weaker, first by childbirth, 
  then the effects of war, and ultimately illness. She had her own unique inner 
  spirit of perseverance, as did Scarlett. Melanie loved Ashley, Beau, and 
  Scarlett unwaveringly, and dutifully supported the Confederate cause, 
  revealing the naivete of her character.
  Beau Wilkes – Melanie's and Ashley's lovable son.
  India Wilkes – Ashley's sister. Almost engaged to Stuart Tarleton, she 
  bitterly hates Scarlett for stealing his attention before he is killed at 
  Gettysburg. Lives with Aunt Pittypat after Melanie kicks her out for accusing 
  Scarlett and Ashley of infidelity.
  Honey Wilkes – another sister of India and Ashley. Originally hoped to marry 
  Charles Hamilton until Scarlett marries him; following the war, she marries a 
  man from Mississippi, and moves to his home state with him.
  John Wilkes – Owner of Twelve Oaks Plantation and patriarch of the Wilkes 
  family. Killed during the Civil War.
[edit] O'Hara family
  Scarlett O'Hara – The wilful protagonist of the novel, whose travails the 
  novel follows throughout war and reconstruction. She marries Charles Hamilton, 
  Frank Kennedy and Rhett Butler, all the time wishing she was married to Ashley 
  Wilkes instead. She has three children, one from each husband: Wade Hampton 
  Hamilton (son to Charles Hamilton), Ella Lorena Kennedy (daughter to Frank 
  Kennedy) and Eugenia Victoria "Bonnie Blue" Butler (deceased daughter to Rhett 
  Butler), miscarried baby after Scarlett's fall, and later Katie Colum "Cat" 
  O'Hara in Scarlett.
  Gerald O'Hara – Scarlett's impetuous Irish father.
  Suellen O'Hara – Scarlett's selfish sister.
  Carreen O'Hara – Scarlett's timid, religious sister who, in the end of the 
  story, joins a convent.
  Ellen O'Hara – Scarlett's gracious mother, of French ancestry.
[edit] Other characters
  Mammy – Scarlett's nurse from birth; a slave. Cited by Rhett as "the real head 
  of the household." She has a no-nonsense attitude and is outspoken and 
  opinionated. She chastises Scarlett often. She is extremely loyal to the 
  O'Haras, especially Scarlett, whom she cares for like a daughter.
  Prissy – A young slave girl who features in Scarlett's life. She is portrayed 
  as flighty and silly.
  Pork – The O'Hara family's butler, favored by Gerald.
  Dilcey – Pork's wife, a strong, outspoken slave woman of mixed Indian and 
  Black decent, Prissy's mother.
  Charles Hamilton – Melanie's brother, Scarlett's first husband, shy and 
loving.
  Frank Kennedy – Suellen's former beau, Scarlett's second husband, an older man 
  who only wants peace and quiet. He originally asks for Suellen's hand in 
  marriage, but Scarlett steals him to save Tara. He is portrayed as a pushover 
  who will do anything to appease Scarlett.
  Belle Watling – a brothel madam and prostitute; Rhett is her friend. She is 
  portrayed as a kind-hearted country woman and a loyal confederate. At one 
  point she states she has nursing experience.
  Archie – an ex-convict and former Confederate soldier who is taken in by 
  Melanie. Has a strong disliking for all women, especially Scarlett. The only 
  woman he respects is Melanie.
  Jonas Wilkerson – former overseer of Tara, father of Emmie Slattery's 
  illegitimate baby. After being dismissed because of the aforementioned he 
  eventually becomes employed by the Freedmen's Bureau, where he abuses his 
  position to get back at the O'Haras and becomes rich.
  Emmie Slattery – later wife of Jonas Wilkerson, whom Scarlett blames for her 
  mother's death.
  Will Benteen – Confederate soldier who seeks refuge at Tara and stays on to 
  help with the plantation, in love with Carreen but marries Suellen to stay on 
  Tara, and repair her reputation. He is portrayed as very perceptive and lost 
  half of his leg in the war.
  Aunt Pittypat Hamilton – Charles and Melanie's vaporish aunt who lives in 
  Atlanta.
  Uncle Peter – Aunt Pittypat's houseman and driver, he is extremely loyal to 
  Pittypat.
[edit] Setting
  Tara Plantation – The O'Hara home and plantation
  Twelve Oaks – The Wilkes' plantation.
  Peachtree Street – location of Aunt Pittypat's home in Atlanta
The novel opens in April 1861 and ends in the early autumn of 1873.
[edit] Politics
The book includes a vivid description of the fall of Atlanta in 1864 and the 
devastation of war (some of that aspect was missing from the 1939 film). The 
novel showed considerable historical research. According to her biography, 
Mitchell herself was ten years old before she learned that the South had lost 
the war. Mitchell's sweeping narrative of war and loss helped the book win the 
Pulitzer Prize on May 3, 1937.
An episode in the book dealt with the early Ku Klux Klan. In the immediate 
aftermath of the War, Scarlett is assaulted by poor Southerners living in 
shanties, whereupon her former black slave Big Sam saves her life. In response, 
Scarlett's male friends attempt to make a retaliatory nighttime raid on the 
encampment. Northern soldiers try to stop the attacks, and Rhett helps Ashley, 
who is shot, to get help through his prostitute friend Belle. Scarlett's husband 
Frank is killed. This raid is presented sympathetically as being necessary and 
justified, while the law-enforcement officers trying to catch the perpetrators 
are depicted as oppressive Northern occupiers.
Although the Klan is not mentioned in that scene (though Rhett tells Archie to 
burn the "robes"), the book notes that Scarlett finds the Klan abominable. She 
believed the men should all just stay at home (she wanted both to be petted for 
her ordeal and to give the hated Yankees no more reason to tighten martial law, 
which is bad for her businesses). Rhett is also mentioned to be no great lover 
of the Klan. At one point, he said that if it were necessary, he would join in 
an effort to join "society". The novel never explicitly states whether this 
drastic step was necessary in his view. The local chapter later breaks up under 
the pressure from Rhett and Ashley.
Scarlett expresses views that were common of the era. Some examples:
  "How stupid negroes were! They never thought of anything unless they were 
  told." — Scarlett thinks to herself, after returning to Tara after the fall of 
  Atlanta.
  "How dared they laugh, the black apes!...She'd like to have them all whipped 
  until the blood ran down...What devils the Yankees were to set them free!" — 
  Scarlett again thinking to herself, seeing free blacks after the war.
  However, she is kind to Pork, her father's trusted manservant. He tells 
  Scarlett that if she were as nice to white people as she is to black, a lot 
  more people would like her.
  She almost loses her temper when the Yankee women say they would never have a 
  black nurse in their house and talk about Uncle Peter, Aunt Pittypat's beloved 
  and loyal servant, as if he were a mule. Scarlett informs them that Uncle 
  Peter is a member of the family, which bewilders the Yankee women and leads 
  them to misinterpret the situation.
  It was mentioned that only one slave was ever whipped at Tara, and that was a 
  stablehand who didn't brush Gerald's horse. The only time Scarlett hit a slave 
  was when Prissy was hysterical.
  Scarlett at one point criticized Harriet Beecher Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin, 
  saying no one treated their slaves that badly.
[edit] Inspirations
As several elements of Gone with the Wind have parallels with Margaret 
Mitchell's own life, her experiences may have provided some inspiration for the 
story in context. Mitchell's understanding of life and hardship during the 
American Civil War, for example, came from elderly relatives and neighbors 
passing war stories to her generation.[3]
While Margaret Mitchell used to say that her Gone with the Wind characters were 
not based on real people, modern researchers have found similarities to some of 
the people in Mitchell's own life as well as to individuals she knew or she 
heard of.[4] Mitchell's maternal grandmother, Annie Fitzgerald Stephens, was 
born in 1845; she was the daughter of an Irish immigrant, who owned a large 
plantation on Tara Road in Clayton County, south of Atlanta, and who married an 
American woman named Ellen, and had several children, all daughters.
Many researchers believe that the physical brutality and low regard for women 
exhibited by Rhett Butler was based on Mitchell's first husband, Red Upshaw. She 
divorced him after she learned he was a bootlegger amid rumors of abuse and 
infidelity. Some believe he was patterned on the life of George 
Trenholm.[5][6][7]
After a stay at the plantation called The Woodlands, and later Barnsley Gardens, 
Mitchell may have gotten the inspiration for the dashing scoundrel from Sir 
Godfrey Barnsley of Adairsville, Georgia.
Belle Watling was based on Lexington, Kentucky, madam Belle Brezing.
Martha Bulloch Roosevelt, the mother of US president Theodore Roosevelt may have 
been an inspiration for Scarlett O'Hara. Roosevelt biographer David McCullough 
discovered that Mitchell, as a reporter for The Atlanta Journal, conducted an 
interview with one of Martha's closest friends and bridesmaid, Evelyn King 
Baker, then 87. In that interview, she described Martha's physical appearance, 
beauty, grace, and intelligence in detail. The similarities between Martha and 
the Scarlett character are striking.
[edit] Reception
The sales of Margaret Mitchell's novel in the summer of 1936, at the virtually 
unprecedented price of three dollars, reached about one million by the end of 
December.[8] Favorable critics found in the novel and its success an implicit 
rejection of what one reviewer dismissed as "all the thousands of technical 
tricks our novelists have been playing with for the past twenty years," [9] 
while from the ramparts of the critical establishment almost universally male 
reviewers lamented the book's literary mediocrity and labeled it mere 
"entertainment."[citation needed]
[edit] Symbolism
Over the past years, the novel Gone with the Wind has also been analyzed for its 
symbolism and treatment of For example, Scarlett has been characterized as a 
heroic figure struggling and attempting to twist life to suit her own personal 
wishes in society.[10] The land is considered a source of strength, as in the 
plantation Tara, whose name is almost certainly drawn from the Hill of Tara in 
Ireland, a mysterious and poorly-understood archeological site that has 
traditionally been connected to the temporal and/or spiritual authority of the 
ancient Irish kings. It also represents the permanence of the land in a rapid 
changing world.[11] Scarlett’s beautiful, perky hats take part of the symbolism 
as well. They show her feminine side and how she wants nothing more than to be 
the most attractive woman and the center of attention.[11]
[edit] Sequels
Although Mitchell refused to write a sequel to Gone With The Wind, Mitchell's 
estate authorised Alexandra Ripley to write the novel Scarlett in 1991.
Author Pat Conroy was approached to write a follow-up, but the project was 
ultimately abandoned.[12]
In 2000, the copyright holders attempted to suppress publication of Alice 
Randall’s The Wind Done Gone, a book that retold the story from the point of 
view of the slaves. A federal appeals court denied the plaintiffs an injunction 
against publication in Suntrust v. Houghton Mifflin (2001), on the basis that 
the book was parody protected by the First Amendment. The parties subsequently 
settled out of court to allow the book to be published. After its release, the 
book became a New York Times bestseller.
In 2002, the copyright holders blocked distribution of an unauthorised sequel 
published in the U.S, The Winds of Tara by Katherine Pinotti, alleging copyright 
infringement. The story follows Scarlett as she returns to Tara where a family 
issue threatens Tara and the family's reputation. In it Scarlett shows just how 
far she will go to protect her family and her home. The book was immediately 
removed from bookstores by publisher Xlibris. The book sold in excess of 2,000 
copies within 2 weeks before being removed. More recently, in 2008, Australian 
publisher Fontaine Press re-published "The Winds of Tara" exclusively for their 
domestic market, avoiding U.S. copyright restrictions.[13]
A second sequel was released in November 2007. The story covers the same time 
period as Gone with the Wind and is told from Rhett Butler’s perspective – 
although it begins years before and ends after. Written by Donald McCaig, this 
novel is titled Rhett Butler's People (2007).[14]
[edit] Adaptations
Gone With The Wind has been adapted several times for stage and screen, most 
famously in the 1939 film starring Clark Gable and Vivien Leigh.
On stage it has been adapted as a musical Scarlett (premiering in 1972). The 
musical opened in the West End followed by a pre-Broadway tryout in 1973 (with 
Lesley Ann Warren as Scarlett). The book was again adapted as a musical called 
Gone With The Wind which premiered at the New London Theatre in 2008 in a 
production directed by Trevor Nunn.[15]
The Japanese Takarazuka Revue has also adapted the novel into a musical with the 
same name. The first performance was in 1977, performed by the Moon Troupe. It 
has been performed several times since by the group, the most recent being in 
2004 (performed by the Cosmos Troupe).
There has also been a French musical Autant en Emporte le Vent, based on the 
book.
[edit] Awards
The novel won the 1937 Pulitzer Prize and was adapted into an Academy 
Award-winning 1939 film of the same name. The book was also adapted during the 
1970s into a stage musical Scarlett; there is also a 2008 new musical stage 
adaptation in London's West End titled Gone With The Wind. It is the only novel 
by Mitchell published during her lifetime. It took her seven years to write the 
book and a further eight months to check the thousands of historical and social 
references. The novel is one of the most popular books of all time, selling more 
than 30 million copies. Over the years, the novel has also been analyzed for its 
symbolism and treatment of archetypes.[10][11]
Time magazine included the novel in its TIME 100 Best English-language Novels 
from 1923 to 2005.[16]
[edit] See also
  List of best-selling books
  Lost Laysen, a 1916 novella written by Mitchell and the only other known 
  literary work of hers to ever be published
  Rhett Butler's People, an authorized sequel to Gone with the Wind
  Scarlett, an authorized sequel to Gone with the Wind
  Southern literature
  Southern Renaissance
[edit] References
  ^ See linked terms for more explanation and source references.
  ^ RPO - Ernest Dowson: Non Sum Qualis Eram Bonae sub Regno Cynarae
  ^ Arehart-Treichel, J: "Novel That Brought Fame, Riches Had a Surprising 
  Birth", Psychiatric News, 40(4):20
  ^ Gone With The Wind - Finding the Real Margaret Mitchell
  ^ Treasures of The Confederate Coast: the "Real Rhett Butler" & Other 
  Revelations, by Dr. E. Lee Spence, (Narwhal Press, Charleston/Miami, 1995), 
  ISBN 1886391017
  ^ Rosen, Robert N. Confederate Charleston: An illustrated history of the city 
  and the people during the Civil War. University of South Carolina Press, 1994. 
  p. 151.
  ^ Strauch, Ileana Ashley Hall, SC. Arcadia Publishing, 2003. p. 10.
  ^ Claudia Roth Pierpont, "A Study in Scarlett," New Yorker (August 31, 1992), 
  p. 87.
  ^ Pierpont, "A Study in Scarlett," p. 88.
  ^ a b O. Levitski and O. Dumer, "Bestsellers: Color Symbolism and Mythology in 
  Margaret Mitchell’s Novel Gone with the Wind" (of "Bonnie Blue"), Americana: 
  The Institute for the Study of American Popular Culture, September 2006, 
  webpage: APC-Mitchell.
  ^ a b c "SparkNotes: Gone with the Wind: Themes, Motifs & Symbols" (book 
  notes), Spark Notes, 2006, webpage: SparkN-GWTW.
  ^ Jonathan D. Austin (February 4, 2000). "Pat Conroy: 'I was raised by 
  Scarlett O'Hara'". CNN. 
  http://archives.cnn.com/2000/books/news/02/04/pat.conroy/. 
  ^ Kate Deller-Evans (July 18, 2008). "Book Review - The Winds of Tara, 
  Katherine Pinotti". Fairfax. 
  http://www.independentweekly.com.au/news/local/news/entertainment/book-review-the-winds-of-tara-katherine-pinotti/967723.aspx. 

  ^ Rich, Motoko (16 May 2007). "Rhett, Scarlett and Friends Prepare for Yet 
  Another Encore". New York Times. 
  http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/16/books/16book.html?8dpc. Retrieved 
  2007-11-07. 
  ^ "Gone with the Wind show to close". BBC News. 2008-06-01. 
  http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/7430135.stm. Retrieved 2008-06-01. 
  ^ Time.com/
[edit] External links
      Wikiquote has a collection of quotations related to: Gone with the Wind

  The story behind Gone with the Wind as told by the Margaret Mitchell House and 
  Museum
  Photos of the first edition of Gone With the Wind
  Free public domain eBook for people who live in Australia
  The Scarlett Letter, a quarterly publication devoted to the GWTW phenomenon
  Gone With the Wind Books, a website detailing the printing history of the GWTW 
  book
  Gone With the Wind online exhibition at the Harry Ransom Center at the 
  University of Texas at Austin


      Awards and achievements
      Preceded by
      Honey in the Horn
      by Harold L. DavisPulitzer Prize for the Novel
      1937Succeeded by
      The Late George Apley
      by John Phillips Marquand
            [hide]v • d • eGone with the Wind by Margaret Mitchell

            CharactersScarlett O'Hara  · Rhett Butler  · Ashley Wilkes  · 
            Melanie Hamilton  · India Wilkes  · Others

            AdaptationsFilm  · Harold Rome Musical  · Margaret Martin Musical

            Related WorksScarlett  · Rhett Butler's People  · The Wind Done Gone 
             · The Winds of Tara

            Related TopicsAmerican Civil War  · Confederate States of America  · 
            Antebellum  · Reconstruction


í
Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gone_with_the_Wind"
Categories: 1936 novels | American novels | Historical novels | American Civil 
War novels | English-language novels | Pulitzer Prize for the Novel | Gone with 
the Wind | Southern United States in fiction | Irish American history | Novels 
adapted into films | Novels dealing with slavery
Hidden categories: Wikipedia articles with plot summary needing attention from 
April 2009 | All Wikipedia articles with plot summary needing attention | All 
articles with unsourced statements | Articles with unsourced statements from 
March 2010Personal tools
  New featuresLog in / create accountNamespaces
  ArticleDiscussionVariantsViews
  ReadEditView historyActions
Search
 
 Navigation
  Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleInteraction
  About WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact WikipediaDonate to 
  WikipediaHelpToolbox
  What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkCite this 
  pagePrint/export
  Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable versionLanguages
  العربيةČeskyDanskDeutschEspañolFrançais한국어IdoBahasa 
  IndonesiaItalianoעבריתLietuviųMagyarNederlandsनेपाली日本語‪Norsk 
  (bokmål)‬ਪੰਜਾਬੀPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishSuomiSvenskaTürkçeTiếng 
  Việt中文This page was last modified on 24 July 2010 at 23:05.

  Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; 
  additional terms may apply. See Terms of Use for details.
  Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a 
  non-profit organization.

  Contact us
  Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimerscontaining...